# immunometabolic-comprehensive-indicator
This project includes code related to the 'The immunometabolic comprehensive indicator based on machine learning as a risk factor for all-cause and cardiovascular mortality and cardiovascular diseases in diabetic patients: evidence from the NHANES and UKB cohorts' paper

Abstract
Background At present, there is already considerable evidence on the relationship between immune-inflammatory indicators and metabolic indicators with cardiovascular disease (CVD) indicators and mortality in diabetes patients. This study used machine learning to construct a an immunometabolic comprehensive indicator (IMCI), which may serve as a better predictor of mortality and cardiovascular disease in diabetes patients.
Methods This study included 3,355 diabetic patients from the 2001-2018 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) and constructed an immunometabolic comprehensive indicator by using machine learning. The study employed Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves, time-dependent ROC curves, Cox proportional hazards model, binary logistic regression analyses, and restricted cubic splines (RCS) to analyze the relationship between the immunometabolic comprehensive indicator and cardiovascular disease as well as its mortality. The findings were validated using the UK Biobank database.Stratified analyses were conducted using R (version 4.4.1; https://www.r-project.org) and Python (version 3.10.11; https://www.python.org), with statistical significance defined as p<0.05 for all hypothesis tests.
Results In this study, after adjusting for covariates, the immunometabolic comprehensive indicator was significantly associated with all-cause mortality and cardiovascular mortality in patients with diabetes. Participants were divided into higher (>0.04) and lower (≤0.04) IMCI groups according to the Youden index. In the multivariable adjusted model, compared to participants with a lower IMCI, those with a higher IMCI had a significantly higher risk of all-cause and cardiovascular mortality. The time-dependent ROC curve showed that the areas under the curve of the 1-, 3-, 5-, and 10-year survival rates were 0.71, 0.68, 0.67, and 0.67 for all-cause mortality and 0.71, 0.69, 0.71 and 0.70 for cardiovascular mortality. The RCS regression analysis indicated that the IMCI in diabetic patients had a linear relationship with all-cause mortality but a nonlinear relationship with cardiovascular mortality. The results showed that the IMCI was significantly associated with total CVD, congestive heart failure, heart attack, angina pectoris, stroke, and coronary heart disease after adjusting for covariates. The RCS analysis indicates that these relationships are linear. Additionally, the ROC curve indicated that IMCI had the highest diagnostic efficiency for congestive heart failure (AUC=0.81). These results were externally validated by using the UK Biobank (UKB) database, which yielded the same conclusions.
Conclusion The immunometabolic comprehensive indicator enhance mortality prediction, diagnostic efficacy of CVD and its mortality, and surpasses other currently prominent indicators in certain correlations with specific cardiovascular conditions. It is expected to become more effective metrics for identifying populations at early risk of cardiovascular disease and improve risk stratification.

Keywords Machine learning, Immunometabolic comprehensive indicator, Cardiovascular disease, All-cause mortality, Cardiovascular mortality

